# FIFA22-Soccer
## by Jamil Abdulai



## Dataset

>FIFA is a soccer video game produced by EA which has gained notoriety among individuals from all-around the world with over 31 million players on FIFA 22. A new FIFA game comes out every year in which EA rates all the players in the game and give them certain stats which are supposed to be a depiction of real life. Each player is rated on various attributes which are then used to give them an overall score. Some of the attributes players are rated on include stats such as: Pace, Dribbling, Shooting. Our group was curious, if we take these values as accurate, what can we learn about the real world? The main target for this analysis are real soccer players as well as soccer fanatics. Real soccer players will benefit the most from our analysis. I hope that the analysis could help players direct their workout regiment by helping understand which attributes are truly considered valuable in soccer and for a club. Soccer fanatics will also benefit from the analysis as it will help solidify their understanding of which characteristics tare valuable when looking at potential trade prospects for their respective team.The dataset is in a two part .csv files,'players_fifa22.csv' and 'teams_fifa22.csv'. The intention is to analyze the 'players_fifa22.csv' file for this project.

Access to dataset : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bryanb/fifa-player-stats-database

>The significance of the data visualization approached in the data analysis process are illustrated in two parts of this project.One will utilize Python visualization packages in the first section to methodically investigate the chosen dataset, starting with plots of single variables and progressing to plots of multiple variables. You will create a brief presentation in the second section that highlights the intriguing characteristics, patterns, and connections you found in the dataset you chose.The exploratory visuals from the previous phase will be converted into refined, informative representations as the main means of communicating your results. 


## Summary of Findings

> From the descriptive analysis of the dataset, the average wage in Euros is 8,973.53 out of 19,260 players. The minimum was 0 with a maximum of 350,0000 Euros weekly.Also, 75%f the players averages 8,000.00 Euros compared to a median of 3,000 Euros. With respect to the age, the oldest player is 54 years old whereas the youngest was 16 years of age. Furthermore, 75% of the players are 29 years compared to a median of 25 out of 19,260 players. Likely, the tallest players is 206cm compared to the shortest recorded as 155cm with a median and 75% recorded as 186cm and 181cm respectively.The player with the highest value in Euros is 194,000,000.00 compared to the lowest value of 0. 
> The top 10 nationalities of the players were analyzed with majority originating from England followed by Germany, Spain, France, Argentina and Brazil.Also, a graph of the Top 25 most popular clubs indicated that all the countries stemmed from the continent of Europe like Paris Saint-Germain, FC Barcelona, Real Madrid CF, Manchester City and Arsenal just to mention few.The analysis of the most preferred position show that majority of the players preferred CB-Center Back, ST-Striker, CAM-Central Attacking Midfielder, GK-Goalkeeper, RM-Right Midfield, CDM-Central Defensive Midfielder with the rest of the other positions not mostly favored by the players. Lastly, the analization of the preferred foot of players clearly indicates that more than 50% of the soccer players are predominantly right-footed.
> The visualization of scatter plot of Stength vs Stamina shows a very week correlation between the strength and stamina. This is a bit shocking because I expected players with strength should have stamina.Also, The analysis of SLiding Tackles vs Standing Tackles indicate a strong positive relationship between a sliding and standing tackle, thus, most players who are likely to defend standing will do similar sliding.Furthermore, The analysis of Shooting Total vs Passing Total confirms a weak postivie relationship between shooting toal and passing total thus there is slight chances of players who pass the ball are also likely to shoot it as well.The bar graph of the top 5 clubs with expensive players indicates that clubs with the most value are Manchester City, Paris Saint-Germain, Liverpool, Manchester United and Real Madrid CF.Karim Benzema had the most earnings followed by Kevin De Bryne, Lionel Messi, Casemiro and lastly, Toni Kroos.Kylian Mbappe, Erling Haaland, Harry Kane, Neymar and Kevin De Bruyne are the most expensise players to purchase.The violin graph shows players with low defensive and high attacking work rates are values more, players with the most wages are CF-Center Forward.
Lastly, the histogram of the distribution of age with defensive work rate indicates that majority of the players have a medium defensive and offensive work rate.



## Key Insights for Presentation

> The analysis of the dataset provided critical insights. There are multiple soccer clubs across the globe. From the analysis, any soccer fanatic will attest to the fact that his/her club is among the top 30 clubs on the list. From the Real Madrid, FC Barcelona, Paris Saint-Germain, Manchester United, Manchester City, Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur just to mention a few with all from Europe.
Also, The visualization clearly shows that more than 50% of the soccer players are predominantly right-footed and there's a strong positive relationship between a sliding and standing tackle, thus, most players who are likely to defend standing will do similar sliding. Furthermore, the analysis confirms a weak postivie relationship between shooting toal and passing total thus, there is slight chances of players who pass the ball are also likely to shoot it as well. The playing positions with the most wages are CF-Center Forwards followed bt CM-Central Midfielders. Upon a detailed analysis, pace total have a negative correlation with weight and height thus the faster players are skinnier and moslty shorter in respect to the heavier and taller. Another critical insight found was potential have a negative correlation with age meaning the more a potential a player have, the younger they tend to be. Another valid insight was the top 5 countries with the most rated players are England, which is the highes, followed by Germany, Spain, France and Argentina whereas, Kylian Mbappe, Erling Haaland, Harry Kane, Neymar and Kevin De Bruyne are the most expensive players to purchase. Another massive intuition derived was a positive correlation between agility and balance attributes with respect to defensive work rate, thus, majority of the defensive work rate is medium and occurs at the bottom with a high press around the mid-section of the graph as indicated by the players.
